### C++ Software Engineer intern at Esperanto Technologies

From June 2022 through to July 2022 I worked at Esperanto Technologies in the _graph_ group under the supervision of Dr. Nivard Aymerich.

I developed a graphical tool using Qt in C++ to visualise diagnosis data for the company's machine learning compiler. The tool had already been built with web technologies a year previous, but it was not performant and buckled when diagnosis data was too large. As such, the task was to rebuild it from scratch using C++ and Qt, with an emphasis on performance and being able to handle large inputs.

More specifically, the work involved parsing a complex `.json` file, which could reach sizes on the order of dozens of gigabytes, containing cycle-by-cicle information on the execution of a machine learning program and then visualising it in a multitude of ways (the program was to have five different tabs showing summaries, execution information across cores, and memory usage across cores). Design-wise the program was to be a clone of the original tool, and so custom Qt GUI elements had to be created. This includes a graphing widget that plotted diverse execution information along a CPU cycle axis, for which a custom rendering method had to be implemented from the ground up.

I'm most proud of the polish in the zoom implementation of the graphing widget. Users could zoom in and out of the graph, and the grid lines would appear at smaller or larger intervals accordingly in order to always provide sufficient but not excessive context information. Additionally, grid lines would only appear at easy to read numbers (multiples of highest possible powers of 10). Thus, for example, when showing a range of cycles between 0 and 20000 grid lines appear at 0, 4000, 8000, 12000, 16000, and 20000; but, when zooming in to the range between 8032 and 8277, the grid lines would be at 8050, 8100, 8150, 8200, and 8250. Showing the right amount of grid lines and at appropriate places is an open ended design problem, and I am particularly pleased at how my analytical mindset and creativity allowed me to find a simple, elegant and robust solution to it.

One other software engineer intern was assigned to this project; following an agile methodology, work was organised in stories in a Jira board which were assigned weekly in sprint meetings with our manager. The project, though ambitious, was completed (fully replicated functionality of the original tool, and could handle very large inputs) within the time frame of the internship. I was also involved in the onboarding of the following intern, who would continue to expand the tool's capabilities.

This project showcases my skills as a software engineer in a professional setting, as well as my familiarity with C++ and Qt. My teamwork skills were put to use in the context of an agile environment while managed by an experienced software engineer, and I got the chance to show that I successfully deliver to deadlines while paying attention to performance and polish in implemented features. Lastly, I showed that my analytical capabilities coupled with my creativity enable me to produce simple, elegant and robust solutions to open ended problems.